# 🖼️ diagrams.sh

This script generates UML diagrams for a specified Python module using `pyreverse` and `code2flow`. It checks for dependencies, loads environment variables, sets directories, and processes command-line arguments for customization of module names, directories, and output locations.

---

## Operations

- **Base setup**: Identifies the project and script directories, sources the `base.sh` script for utility functions, and loads environment variables from a `.env` file if it exists.
- **Dependency checks**: Verifies the presence of required tools:
    - `graphviz` for `.dot` file handling.
    - `python` for running Python-based commands.
    - `pylint` (with `pyreverse`) for generating UML diagrams.
    - `code2flow` for creating flowcharts.
- **Environment variable setup**: Sets default values for module name, module directory, and output directory (`MODULE_NAME`, `MODULE_DIR`, `OUTPUT_DIR`). These can be customized via environment variables or command-line arguments.
- **Argument parsing**: Parses optional arguments to allow customization:
    - `-m` or `--module-name` to specify the module name.
    - `-d` or `--module-dir` to specify the module directory.
    - `-o` or `--output-dir` to specify the output directory.
- **Directory creation**: Creates subdirectories within the output directory for organizing different types of UML and flowchart outputs:
    - `classes` for class diagrams.
    - `packages` for package diagrams.
    - `flowcharts` for code flowcharts.
- **Diagram generation**: Runs `pyreverse` to create UML diagrams in multiple formats (`html`, `pdf`, `png`, and `svg`) and organizes them into respective directories. It also generates flowcharts with `code2flow`.
- **Completion message**: Displays a message confirming successful generation of diagrams.

---

## Usage

To run the script:

```sh
./diagrams.sh -m=<module_name> -d=<module_dir> -o=<output_dir>
```

## Examples

```sh
./diagrams.sh -m=api -d=./src/api -o=./docs/diagrams
```
